.\" man page for the pcpustat utility.
.Dd September 5, 2010
.Dt ascii 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ascii
.Nd ASCII converter and table generator
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl s
.Op Ar arg...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The ascii utility generates an ASCII table, or performs ASCII conversions.
.Pp
If called without arguments, ascii generates a table of 32 rows by 8 columns listing the decimal, octal, hexadecimal,
and character representations of each of the 256 characters in 8-bit ASCII.  For characters 0-31, the character
representation is a "^" followed by the value of the character plus 64.  Thus, 1 is represented as "^A".  Other
values are rendered as characters in the set used by the current terminal.
.Pp
If called with arguments, then each argument is treated as a token to evaluate.  If the evaluation of the token as a
Ruby expression results in a numeric value, then the decimal, octal, hex, and character representations of that number
are printed.  If the expression results in a string value, or an evaluation error occurs, then each character of the
token is represented separately by its ASCII value.  You can also specify that all tokens should be treated as strings
by using the
.Op Fl s
option.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl s, -string
Treat all tokens as strings.  The ASCII value of each character in each token will be represented, instead of attempting
to evaluate arguments as numeric values.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width lockname
.It Cm ascii
Prints the complete ASCII table
.It Cm ascii 12
 12 014 0x0c ^L
.It Cm ascii -s 12
 49 061 0x31 1
 50 062 0x32 2
.It Cm ascii h
104 150 0x68 h
.It Cm ascii '?A+32'
 97 141 0x61 a
.It Cm ascii 0x3E
 62 076 0x3e >
.It Cm ascii 0b01001010
 74 112 0x4a J
.Sh AUTHOR
Sterling (Chip) Camden <sterling@camdensoftware.com>
.Sh WWW
<http://chipstips.com/?tag=rbascii>
.Sh BUGS
None known.
